Goa Tourism
Lying on the western coast, Goa is India's smallest state and unlike any other, known for its endless beaches, stellar nightlife, eclectic seafood, world-heritage listed architecture. Spread across just 3,702 km, Goa lies in the Konkan region. It is a far cry from the hippie haven or a beach getaway, and one of the only few destinations that is open 24x7. The laid-backness (susegad) of Goa attracts as many international tourists as it does Indians, or even more so. The Goans are quite friendly towards tourists and celebrate many festivals throughout the year, the most famous being the New Year and Goa Carnival. While the seafood is excellent, Goa has one of the best nightlife in India with trendy bars, beach shacks, elegant cafes and many clubs and discotheques. Thanks to lower alcohol prices in the state, Goa is also great for younger tourists with relatively tighter pockets. For those of us perpetually confused between North Goa and South Goa, this might help - the state of Goa is divided into North Goa and South Goa. While North Goa is the nightlife hub where all the touristy beaches, flea markets, and beach shacks are located, South Goa is the land of luxurious resorts and laid-back beach vibes. Having been a Portuguese territory for almost 450 years, the Portuguese architecture is nowhere as prevalent as in Goa - visit one of the many whitewashed churches, crumbling forts or spectacular churches. The yellow houses with purple doors, ochre coloured mansions and oyester shell windows is what completes the kalieodscope of Goan architecture. Panjim, the capital city located in the centre overlooks the calm Mandovi River where the famous floating casinos of Goa are docked. The centre is well-connected with an international airport and roads and trains run from North to South part of Goa. With a coastline stretching for over 100 kilometres, Goa has stunning beaches. While Baga and Calangute are more popular among the Indian family crowd, Anjuna and Arambol draw a lot of foreign tourists. The beaches in South Goa are relatively lesser explored, but some of them like Agonda and Palolem are more beautifull.
Manali Tourism
One of the most popular hill stations in Himachal, Manali offers the most magnificent views of the Pir Panjal and the Dhauladhar ranges covered with snow for most parts of the year. With the Covid-19 pandemic going on, Manali has evolved to be a place loved by young people looking for longer stays for workation. With ambient cafes, good wifi availability, small eateries and convenient shops, Old Manali is among the favorite neighbourhood for such people. There are many homestays and hostels offering dorm beds for cheap for longer durations. Manali has many trekking options around it, making it a great base for exploring this side of Himalayas. River Beas provides great rafting options in the nearby town of Kullu. Adjoining Parvati river, lies the Parvati Valley with  Kasol, Manikaran, Tosh and small villages attracting travellers for longer stays. Atal Tunnel now allows travellers to reach Sissu within a few hours making Spiti way more accessible. It snows the most in the months of January & February followed by December and March. If you're very lucky, you might find some snow in April. Tourists flock to Rohtang Pass & Solang valley for various adventure activities including skiing, paragliding, horse-riding & zorbing. Rohtang Pass is almost always covered with snow and can often get overcrowded and see traffic jams
Coorg Tourism
Located amidst imposing mountains in Karnataka with a perpetually misty landscape, Coorg is a popular coffee producing hill station. It is popular for its beautiful green hills and the streams cutting right through them. It also stands as a popular destination because of its culture and people. The Kodavas, a local clan specializing in martial arts, are especially notable for their keen hospitality. Coorg, officially known as Kodagu, is the most affluent hill station in Karnataka. It is well known for its breathtakingly exotic scenery and lush greenery. Forest covered hills, spice and coffee plantations only add to the landscape. Madikeri is the region's centre point with all transportation for getting around starting from here. On a visit to Coorg, cover the beautiful towns like Virajpet, Kushalnagar, Gonikoppal, Pollibetta, and Somwarpet, and experience the beautiful concept of "homestays" to make your experience more memorable!
Leh Ladakh Tourism
Stunning Gompas (Tibetan Buddhist monasteries), fluttering prayer flags, whitewashed stupas, Ladakh is a riot of intricate murals and red-robed monks. Dominated by dramatic landscapes, Ladakh is known as the world's coldest desert.  It is said that only in Ladakh can a man sitting in the sun with his feet in the shade suffer from sunstroke and frostbite at the same time. With a culture similar to Tibetan culture, the people of Ladakh are friendly and welcoming to tourists. Ladakh is a union territory in the Kashmir region of India. Formerly falling in the state of Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh was administered a union territory on 31st October 2019. Extending from the Siachen Glacier to the main Great Himalayas, Ladakh is a land like no other. Ladakh is an adventure playground for climbing, jeeps tours, rafting and high-altitude trekking. Note that Leh Ladakh is inaccessible by road outside the summer months. The road passes close altogether from around October to May, and the only way to reach left is by air. For those of us living in the constant confusion about the difference between these twin locations, Leh-Ladakh, here is something that might help you. Ladakh is divided into two districts: district Leh, and district Kargil. The former district has a popular town “Leh” and is a great tourist attraction because of its beautiful monasteries, picturesque locations, and interesting markets defining the culture of the place.
Delhi Tourism
The capital of India, Delhi is a cosmopolitan city with a historic old Delhi and the modern New Delhi. From historical monuments to crowded shopping malls, from an extensive network of the modern metro system to Delhi University campus, Dilli has multiple personalities and is considered to be the city with a heart.The narrow, winding lanes and bylanes of old Delhi are a testament to the former Mughal rule. Old Delhi houses one of the country's oldest and busiest market – Chandni Chowk.Take time to explore historical monuments such as the Red Fort, Jama Masjid, Humayun's Tomb and Purana Qila if you want to explore the Mughal History. Delhi has famous temples scattered all across the city, a few noteworthy ones being the Akshardham Temple, the Lotus Temple (also known as the Bahai Temple), and the ISKON Temple.Central Delhi is the concentration of the country's political power, and the must-visit places here include the Rashtrapati Bhawan on Raisina Hill, the Rajpath, and the India Gate. The best place to visit this area is in the evening, as all the buildings are lit up, and you can see the Amar Jawan Jyoti at India Gate shining brightly.People in Delhi love to eat, and tourists will find themselves spoilt for choice between the multitude of dishes on offer at every corner of every street. From kebabs and tikkas to Chhole Bhature, Delhi is a melting pot of diverse cultures, and this fact is reflected in the culinary palette of the city.Delhi is a shopper's paradise with some colourful bazaars and upscale markets. The wide variety of markets in Delhi ensure that travellers go back home with double the luggage they came with!.
Varanasi Tourism
World's oldest living city, Varanasi - also known as Kashi (City of Life) and Benaras, is the spiritual capital of India. It is one of Hinduism's seven holy cities. The old city of Varanasi lies along the western banks of the Ganges, spread across a labyrinth of narrow galis. Be prepared to walk on foot and encounter some holy cows! Temples at almost every turn engulf Varanasi but the Kashi Vishwanath Temple is the most visited and the oldest of the lot. Benaras is known as the city of Lord Shiva for a reason, and rightfully so.Varanasi is considered an auspicious place to die, as it is believed to grant moksha or liberation from the cycle of life and death. Spiritually enlightening, the heart of the city pulsates around the ghats, about 80 of which border the Ganges. Be prepared for the sights, sounds and smells! Don't miss out on the hot chaat and cool lassi. Though, all chaos and noise on the ghats take a pause before dusk when the Ganga Aarti begins to take place, a ceremony of immense grandeur.This divine city is also an important destination for Buddhists. Gautam Buddha preached his first sermon in Benaras, a part which is now in Sarnath.
Mumbai Tourism
Mumbai, the capital city of the Indian state of Maharashtra, is a spectacular paradox of chaos and hope, glamour and squalor, modernity and tradition. Famously known as the City of Dreams, Mumbai – formerly known as Bombay - Mumbai is a beautifully blended melting pot of cultures and lifestyles.The city soaks in everything into its fabric, making it its very own. From upcoming actors struggling to make it big on the silver screen; from Bolly superstars to big industrialists to tribes of fisherman and slum dwellers, Mumbai is a city that proudly boasts of stories from different walks of human survival.One of the main centres in the country of art, culture, music, dance and theatre, Mumbai is a dynamic, cosmopolitan city that has been running for years solely on the indomitable spirit of the Mumbaikars.
Bangalore Tourism
Having evolved gradually from being the Garden city to the Silicon Valley of India, Bangalore is India's third-largest city. Bangalore is loved for its pleasant weather, beautiful parks and the many lakes here. Bangalore is renowned for its eateries, street food corners, quirky cafes, coffee roasters and pubs dotting every corner of the city, serving cuisines from all over the world. Brunches, buffets, burgers, rooftop cafes, late-night eats - Bangalore has it all.Here, one can choose to take a long stroll through the beautiful Cubbon Park, shop in the many malls or street markets or hop into one of the many acclaimed breweries for a cold and refreshing drink. There are a huge number of beautifully decorated parks in the city that are ideal for going on a morning stroll or a jog. One walk through the 300-acre Cubbon Park, or the botanical gardens of Lalbagh, and you'll know precisely why Bangalore is so famously called India's 'Garden City'.But just like every big city, the unprecedented growth of IT in Bangalore has reshaped quite a few things including rising temperatures, polluted lakes and heavily congested roads, especially in the newer areas. Aside from the central business and commercial districts (and the roads leading up to them), the neighbourhoods of Bangalore are mostly quiet and serene, especially the older parts of the city like Jayanagar and J.P Nagar.
Srinagar Tourism
Famously known as ‘Heaven on Earth’, Srinagar is located in the union territory of Jammu & Kashmir, on the banks of river Jhelum. As picturesque as the most stunning painting to ever be painted, Srinagar is known for the stationary houseboats and colourful Shikararas on Dal Lake.The main draw of Sringara, the gondola-type rowboats - Shikaras are used by the tourists to see attractions like the Floating Vegetable Market, and the Mir Bahris – a lively community of people who live on the lake itself. Known as the summer capital of Jammu & Kashmir, Srinagar is home to some of the most exquisite Mughal-age gardens in India, with the top attractions being Nishat Bagh, Shalimar Bagh and Chashm-E-Shahi Garden.Kashmiri cuisine is famous all over the globe, so when in Srinagar, trying out the local dishes, which are rich in unique fragrant spices, is a must. Srinagar is also famous for the Kashmiri shawls, Kashmiri apples and the dried fruits (almonds and walnuts) which can be bought from the Lal Chowk Market.Heavy snowfall affects the connectivity of Srinagar during the winter months of December to February. Communal tensions also lead to frequent curfews in some parts of the city. Make sure to check the situation before visiting.
Darjeeling Tourism
Jaw-dropping locales, mesmerising sunrises, the untouched beauty of the hills, the old-world charm of the past, and the welcoming smiles of the local people all add up to make Darjeeling one of the most beautiful hill stations in Eastern part of India. Spread over a steep mountain ridge, nestled amidst acres of lush green tea plantations, Darjeeling stands at the height of 2,050 meters above sea level, thus boasting of cool climes all year round. This scenic hill station is the perfect getaway for a romantic honeymoon and is just around 700 kilometres away from Kolkata. A respite from the hot and humid summers of India, Darjeeling is a popular tourist destination in North-East India. Providing a heady mixture of splendid tea gardens on rolling mountain slopes, meandering toy train rides through the picturesque city, and delectable traditional Tibetan cuisine, Darjeeling works wonders to cater to the gorgeous panorama of the Himalayas.There is a reason the city is known as the 'Queen of the Himalayas'. The lush green slopes dotted with women plucking tea leaves is a sight as mesmerising as no other. There are over 86 tea estates in Darjeeling that are responsible for producing the worldwide famous 'Darjeeling Tea'. Have a cup of locally brewed chai at the tea estate, or get down amidst the plantations to pluck a few tea leaves yourself, you are free to take your pick!.A previous summer capital of India under the British Raj, Darjeeling has come off age as one of the most sought after hill stations in India. Famous for its beautiful tea plantations and the quality of Darjeeling tea, Darjeeling is a delight for all kind of tourists. The toy train established back in 1881, still runs in this part and is also one of the UNESCO World Heritage sites. Beautiful colonial architecture including mansions and churches dot this little beautiful town. Filled with people from Tibet, Nepal, nearby Indian states and the Gorkhas, Darjeeling is brimming with cultural diversity. The third highest peak in the world and the highest in India, the Kanchenjunga peak is clearly visible from here and you can enjoy a panoramic view of the peak. Some of Darjeeling's most popular attractions include monasteries, botanical gardens, a zoo, and the Darjeeling-Rangeet Valley Passenger Ropeway cable car which happens to be the longest Asian cable car. Darjeeling is a wonderful place to walk around and explore the tea estates, villages, and markets.
Ooty Tourism
Nestled amidst Nilgiri hills, Ooty, also known as Udagamandalam, is a hill station in Tamil Nadu which serves as a top-rated tourist destination. Once regarded as the summer headquarters of the East India Company, the Queen of the hills is a picturesque getaway.Dotted with tea gardens, serene waterfalls, winding country lanes, and charming colonial architecture, Ooty is the perfect respite everyone. Popular among couples and honeymooners, Ooty allures its visitors with the panoramic views of the Nilgiri mountains.The Nilgiri mountain railway is the steepest track in all of Asia. Remember the hit song 'Chaiyya Chaiyya' where Shahrukh Khan and Malaika Arora matching steps on top of a train? Remember the breathtaking locales as the train chugged its way across lush greenery? Yes, that was the Nilgiri Mountain Railways, and the Nilgiri Mountains all along.
Shirdi Tourism
The home of great saint Sai Baba, Shirdi is a religious site close to Nasik with various temples apart from the famous Sai Baba temple and a few historical sites.Located in the Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra, Shirdi holds a strong importance as a holy and pilgrim place by Sai Baba devotees. The small town is filled with religious spots and activities which will soothe and calm your soul on its visit. The air here carries chants lingering with spirituality and the whole grandness about the same too will leave you spellbound. There are many religious places to be seen in Shirdi such as Chavadi, Samadhi Mandir, Dwarkamai masjid, Shani Shignapur, to name a few.
Amarnath Tourism
Amarnath, located in union territory of Jammu and Kashmir is one of the most important pilgrimage in India for the worshippers of Lord Shiva. The Amarnath cave has an enshrined Shivaling formed naturally with ice, which resembles Lord Shiva.Amarnath is visited by millions of tourists every year from all across the world for a challenging mountainous trek called 'Amarnath Yatra'. Legend has it that, this place is regarded to be the same cave where Lord Shiva revealed the secret of life and eternity to Goddess Parvati.Amarnath Cave is accessible only during the Sharavan months of July-August. There are two routes available for undertaking the Amarnath Yatra - via Baltal or Pahalgam. The Baltal route, though shorter, has a steeper trekking route. The Pahalgam route is longer but is generally preferred by most of the devotees. It usually takes 3-5 days to reach Amarnath from the base point. Helicopter services are now available by private operators on both these routes. The devotees need to make advance bookings and get registered to undertake the holy pilgrimage to Amarnath.
Madikeri Tourism
Generally covered as a part of trips to Coorg, Madikeri is a hill town in Karnataka with vast coffee plantations, lush forests and misty hills, all culminating into a breathtaking view. Located in Kodagu District around 6 hours from Bengaluru, Madikeri is a perfect weekend getaway. There is no pollution, no noise to hurt your ears and the cool breeze that accompanies you throughout makes your trip memorable.The most famous place of Madikeri is Raja's Seat- a famous viewpoint from where you can grab all the striking beauty of Madikeri at one go. Madikeri fort and various water cascades are among the other must-visits of the place. Spend a couple of days in the beautiful homestays and Airbnb for a rejuvenating experience. Madikeri, apart from being a refreshing summer retreat, is also famous for its coffee plantations, which are one of its kind in India. No wonder why Madikeri is also famous as 'Karnataka's Coffee Capital.' Renowned for its coffee plantations, this is one of the best places for coffee lovers. To get the real feel you can stay at one of the homestays situated on the coffee estates. You can also take Plantation Tours and help out in berry picking on the fields.
Jammu Tourism
Jammu is the southernmost-part of the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir which sits proudly on the magnificent Shivalik mountain ranges. The Winter Capital of Kashmir, Jammu is a holy and peaceful city known for its majestic temples, religious shrines, glittering "shikhars", and cultural heritage. Since it is also the starting point to the hugely popular Vaishno Devi Temple and Amarnath Yatra, it is visited by tourists from far and wide. Nestled against the backdrop of the snow-capped Pir Panjal Mountains, Jammu forms part of the transition between the Himalayan range in the north and the dusty plains of Punjab in the south. The Shivalik hills cut across the area from the east to the west while the rivers Ravi, Tawi and Chenab cut their way through the region. The City of Temples, Jammu houses the famous Maha Kali Temple which is considered second only to the Vaishno Devi Temple. Originally found in 14th Century BC, the area was ruled over by Dogra dynasty in the pre-independence era. Buddhist Stupas dating back to the 2nd century AD is peppered throughout Jammu, speaking volumes of its rich heritage.The eccentricity of Jammu is prevalent is also prevalent in its Dogra cuisine the crown of which is the scrumptious Wazwan (traditional Kashmiri buffet). Jammu is truly a melange of pilgrimage, leisure, natural beauty and heritage.
Agra Tourism
Located on the banks of River Yamuna in Uttar Pradesh, Agra is a popular tourist destination as it is home to one of the 7 wonders of the world, the Taj Mahal. It is a sneak peek into the architectural history and legacy of the Mughal empire with two other UNESCO World Heritage Sites Agra Fort and Fatehpur Sikri. History, architecture, romance all together create the magic of Agra, and hence, makes for a must-visit for anyone living in or visiting India.Agra is one of the most populous cities in Uttar Pradesh and 24th most populous city in India. With its long and rich history, it is no wonder that Agra forms part of the popular Golden Triangle Circuit for tourists along with Delhi and Jaipur. It is also a part of the Uttar Pradesh Heritage Arc including Varanasi and Lucknow. History fanatics and architecture buffs are sure to have a ball here with the sheer expanse of the Mughal art and culture on display.Apart from its monuments, Agra has some exciting stuff for foodies. It is as famous for its Petha (a sweet made from pumpkin and flavoured with rose water and saffron) as it is for the Taj Mahal. Agra is also well known for its marble artefacts which are best bought in the Sadar Bazaar or Kinaari Bazaar area. Agra is mostly visited on a one-day trip from New Delhi or other nearby cities in Uttar Pradesh but is totally worth it. Be prepared to be astounded, amazed, inspired and thrilled. However, be a little cautious about conmen in the guise of unofficial tour guides and fake handicrafts.
Andaman Tourism
Replete with turquoise blue water beaches and a bit of history, Andaman & Nicobar Islands is a little slice of paradise tucked around 1,400 km away from the east coast of India. Port Blair, the capital has a major airport and seaport and is connected with the rest of the country and with various tourist islands via multiple daily ferries. Havelock and Neil Islands are popular among tourists for their white sandy beaches and great diving options. The union territory of Andaman & Nicobar Islands comprises a total of 572 islands, only 37 of which are inhabited and a few are open to tourists. Havelock Island is one of the largest and the most popular islands of all of the Andaman & Nicobar Islands. Travelers typically spend multiple nights in Havelock and Neil Islands that offer some great resorts.Port Blair is generally used as a base city to catch ferries to nearby islands. However, tourists also spend a day or two here to explore the town and nearby beaches. People also take day trips to Ross Island and North Bay Island or to Jolly Buoy island from Port Blair. 
Munnar Tourism
Munnar is a popular hill station of Kerala perched at an altitude of 1600 metres in the Western Ghats. Famous for its tea estates, various shades of green, blankets of mist forming natural-view points, Munnar is aptly known as the 'Kashmir of South India'.Munnar is a popular destination for a honeymoon with an abundance of resorts and cottages. Situated on the banks of three rivers- Madupetti, Nallathanni and Periavaru.Munnar is divided into Old Munnar, where the tourist information office is, and Munnar, where the bus station and most guest houses are located. The Eravikulam National Park, Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary and tea plantations are its major attractions.
Hyderabad Tourism
A city of contrasts, Hyderabad exudes an old-world charm of its own with the Old City (Charminar side), Hitech City (Cyberabad) and the other areas lying between the old and the new. The capital and the largest city of Telanaga, Hyderabad is home to stately mosques and noisy bazaars lined parallelly alongside swanky new office buildings and malls, and it is these very contrasts – these glimpses into the city’s rich past with inherent promises of an even better future –that make Hyderabad a city worth visiting. Maybe even more than once.The city of pearls and biryani, Hyderabad is home to one of the most iconic landmarks - the Charminar. Translating to 'four minarets', the grand edifice is built entirely out of limestone and granite, with four minarets on four sides, each of them facing a different street. The Charminar stands in a labyrinth of lanes crammed with shops, markets, stalls and shoppers - one of the best places to shop for the authentic pearls and relish the tasty biryanis, skewer kebabs and haleem (the smorgasbord of food that Hyderabad is known for).  The other side of Hyderabad - HiTech City or Cyberabad - is a stark contrast to the Old City. The area teems with grand malls, pulsating clubs, sleek restaurants and hi-rise buildings of the every-growing multinationals. Between the old and new lie the popular city areas of Banjara Hills and Jubilee Hills flanked on the northeast by Secunderabad. Hyderabad and Secunderabad together are still referred to as the "twin cities", though they are practically one now. Hyderabad pulsates with a spectacular mix of people and traditions. Make a journey through this mind-stirring metropolis and be ready to be amazed, frustrated, confounded and thrilled, all at once!.
